Although in the appears that there are html markup in the previously shown react components in [[2. Component]]. This is misleading. The laayout of most Reach Components are written using JSX which looks like html   a markup but  when in reality is just javascript. It's compiled into javascript that looks like this:

React Coomponents is compiled into javascript looks like this:
```js
const App = () => {
  const now = new Date()
  const a = 10
  const b = 20
  return React.createElement(
    'div',
    null,
    React.createElement(
      'p', null, 'Hello world, it is ', now.toString()
    ),
    React.createElement(
      'p', null, a, ' plus ', b, ' is ', a + b
    )
  )
}
```

Handled by Babel and these projects using create-react-app or vite automatically configures to compile automatically. Go into depth in part 7.

So you can write it in pure javscript, but this result in much more boiler code, not as easy to understand and you're just crazy. JSX is prefered because of it's simple and concise syntax and it's resemblence to HTML with the ability to embed dynamic content by writing Javascript and {} curly braces. 

The power of embedding in one react component instead of in pure html and javascript where you have to create the element within javascript and use the dom api to find the element and attach it. ([[2. Component#^5e3f93|Different Discussion]])

JSX is modeled after similar templating languages such as Thymeleaf (used along JavaSpring)

JSX is "XML-like" the catch being every tag needs to be closed.

```html
<br>
```
In JSX that's illegal needs to written as
```javascript
<br />
```

Takeaways:
- How does the templated language JSX work alongside javascript?
	- It is javascript, when compiled it is directly compiled into javascript
- What are similar templated langs?
	- Thymeleaf in java used alongside Javascript
- How is it XML-Like?
	- All tags need to be closed
