App.jsx defines a [[your first component]] named app. A react component represents a part of your site that is defined in javascript and be imported and reuse to structure your website.

In main.jsx this line renders its contents into the div elevent with the attribute ID='root' defined in index.html 
```js
ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render(<App />)
```

By default the html code doesn't contain an markup that is rendered on the page. Notice that there's a div that doesn't contain anything and script with the source file linked to /src/main.jsx
```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <link rel="icon" type="image/svg+xml" href="/vite.svg" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>Vite + React</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="root"></div>
    <script type="module" src="/src/main.jsx"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

you could create html to be rendered but what's the point when you're using react just create a component/


#### Defining a component in javascript

```js
const App = () => (
  <div>
    <p>Hello world</p>
  </div>
)
```

this component has two parts the variable definition part const app and the function definition. 

```js
() => (
  <div>
    <p>Hello world</p>
  </div>
)
```

the function is defined using the short hand syntax ([arrow functions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/Arrow_functions)) for defining functions.


```js
const App = () => {
  const now = new Date()
  const a = 10
  const b = 20
  console.log(now, a+b)

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Hello world, it is {now.toString()}</p>
      <p>
        {a} plus {b} is {a + b}
      </p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Modifying the file we see that in react components it's basically any javascript and some markdown style content. Everything in {} curly braces is evaluated meaning it is determined and then becomes apart of the html at that location. 

Don't remove the export at the bottom, this is important for linking the component with the rest of the app without it it'll break dow the app
```
export default App
```


Takeaways:
- components are javascript functions and contains any form of javascript. 
- curly braces are evaluated and determined and then embeddede into the html allowign for dynamic rendering.
	- how can this be incoperated into dynamically rendering the notes data.json file? Done by first creating a notes component which contains the javascript for receiving the file and then the callback function that checks that the operation was successful and completed then creates the unordered list element and creates and attaches all the underoreded list thingy? Well in the original code the javacscript attaches it to the div with id notes 
		Questions: how would this be imported? How could this be attached ^5e3f93
- must export the component from the file. 
	- How does importing components work?
- All function name dec have to start with a capital letter.
- AWAYS KEEP YOUR DAMN CONSOLE OPEN WHEN WEB DEVELOPING...
